>> It's not often that one
thinks of cannabis as a thing
that will fix a
majorly flawed system.
But Weed for Warriors,
an organization
advocating for the
use of marijuana
to address veteran
issues, is showing us
just how that's possible.
It smells totally crazy in here.
It's so strong.
>> Welcome to the LA chapter of
the Weed for Warriors Project.
We're here to create a
community that helps each other
and to ensure that cannabis is
accessible to those of us who
want it.
>> The things we were told would
harm us are actually proving
to do the opposite.
Drugs like MDMA, mushrooms,
marijuana, LSD, and ayahuasca
are helping resolve
serious mental issues.
Join us as we explore
for ourselves the healing
powers of weed, psychedelics,
and other mindful practices.
>> Weed for Warriors
Project is a veteran group,
really just helping them
learn about cannabis.
That it's not just
some recreational drug.
This is actually
something that's
medically helping people and
really opening up veterans
to receive help.
>> A very good friend of mine
in Headquarters Platoon Fifth
Battalion, Seventh Infantry
was ambushed in a vehicle,
shot 24 times.
A child was shot-- a lot of
issues, survivor's guilt.
From there, I went
on, and basically
medicating with pharmaceuticals
that turned me into someone
I didn't recognize.
>> These guys go to war for a
country and come back with all
these issues.
They're prescribed a
cocktail of pharmaceuticals
that come with terrible side
effects that don't adequately
address their problems.
>> I was on a total of, like,
22 different medications
because of my PTSD and
depression and borderline
personality, and all
of these other things.
>> Pain management,
they're taking opiates.
So you have the addiction
issues, the overdose issues,
the mood stabilizers,
like lithium,
that make these guys zombies.
>> Up to 22 veterans are
committing suicide daily
because these treatments
are not working.
>> Shortly after getting
back from my third deployment
to Afghanistan, I went from
not being on any pills at all
to being on a combination that
added up to 18 pills a day.
That was-- it was not--
it was a way to die.
100%.
>> He was in a tent.
He was a veteran.
He asked the VA for help.
The first thing the VA's going
to do-- here's your Percocet,
here's your Percodan.
He had become addicted to that.
He died right there
in that-- in a tent.
Shot himself.
We paid for that mural for him.
In Lebanon, in '83,
being blown out
of the third floor
in a marine barracks.
241 Marines died
in that instant.
Mentally, it affects you where
it haunts you in your dreams.
>> There's times that I can open
my front door, and I see Iraq.
I feel it.
The idea of getting in a
vehicle and driving around
with the possibility
of blowing up
is not something
I'm willing to do.
And I will completely shut down.
And if it's a school
day or it's a work day
or if it's an anything,
I will shut down.
I'll call in.
I won't be able to do it.
A friend of my father's
gave me a joint.
And he said, you
should try this.
And I was really hesitant.
But they were afraid that I
was either going to end my life
or end up just wandering
off dead somewhere.
Cannabis takes that away.
Cannabis gives me
the ability to live.
>> It blows my mind
that this is not legal.
It's so insane.
>> People are making a lot of
money off that prohibition.
I think it exposes the moral
corruption of our government.
It's for-profit.
The sad truth is we're
killing more people
with the War on Drugs than the
drugs are killing themselves.
>> And yet, because it's
illegal on a federal level,
there is no clear and easy
access to medical marijuana
for veterans.
This is where Weed
for Warriors comes in.
These are the guys that
drove buses across the nation
and threw their
pharmaceutical medications
on the steps of the White
House, and then lit up.
>> We arrived in Washington
DC on November 11,
to be there on Veterans Day.
We marched from Benjamin
Franklin Park past the VA.
We dumped out empty
pill bottles that
were collected on our journey to
highlight the suicide epidemic
and the over-medication
of our veterans.
>> You're just
pushed to the side.
You're fed a bunch of pills
and said, hey, you know what?
This is the life
you're going to live.
And when your body, your
mind, starts rejecting it,
what do you do?
Like, you have to
find a different way.
Otherwise, you do end up dead.
>> What are we doing?
Like, are you going to survive?
We have three children together.
And are you going to
make it long enough
to even see them grow?
He's my husband.
He's the father my children.
He needs to get out there
and be asking for help.
Doesn't matter what.
And we found Weed for Warriors.
He would go to a meeting.
And the two hours
he was there, he
would come home a
completely different person.
I just got to talk to guys, that
are in the same position as me,
that use cannabis
to help themselves.
And that was enough--
enough for that week that
he didn't kill himself.
>> He smokes, and then
he feels much better.
Yeah, and I like going
to the beach or the pool.
>> And without the medicine?
>> Do you really want to
know what happened without
the medicine?
>> Cannabis hasn't done
anything except help me.
I took one or two hits.
Just, I wanted a microdose.
And it was like--
anybody in the military
would understand this term.
I felt like I dropped my pack.
My pack was lifted.
And I was just--
all the stress was relieved.
>> You know, cannabis allows me
to acknowledge what it is that
I'm feeling and accept it.
>> It's helped me to reach those
feelings that I used to have
that--
they weren't useful for me
when I was in the service.
And now, I want compassion
and love back in my life.
>> It's going to help you.
It's going to heal you.
If you don't want to have
anything to do with it, don't.
But stop telling me I'm wrong.
>> Life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness.
I want my life.
It helps me live.
I want the liberty to
choose my medicine.
And the pursuit of happiness
for my family depends on it.
>> I still have a lot
of physical limitations.
Cannabis allows me to
get past them and be.
You know, hold my
kids on my shoulders
and walk around, and do--
be a dad.
It definitely would not
be there without it.
>> Times are a-changin', and
the old systems aren't working
anymore.
This War on Drugs
doesn't even make sense.
But with organizations
like Weed for Warriors,
there is at least access
to treatment and light
at the end of the tunnel,
with cannabis blazing the way.
>> Weed for Warriors!